this is video about a huge issue good
way to start the video this is a video
but a huge issue in my life I you know I
don't know I don't know I don't know I
don't know how many people struggle with
this issue I don't know I don't know
it's I mean every single relationship I
have ever been in including short-term
relationships girlfriends that only
lasted a few months every single
relationship I have had the girlfriend
say to me that they felt intellectually
inferior that they felt they couldn't
keep up that they felt stupid I do not
mean this is some kind of Freudian
interpretation of something that was
hinted at I don't mean that this is
subtext I mean they sat down at some
point one time or another or maybe 10
times me repeatedly and said you know
they felt stupid that they were they
were drowning or losing self-esteem that
this was a problem for them being in a
relationship even though those same
women every single one of them chose me
in the first place
because they thought I was intelligent
that's what I tell myself
I've got sometimes one of the Rays just
broke down sometimes it really has been
we're looking back at you realize these
wouldn't had nothing to do with my
intelligence you know I just have yeah
yeah I've got more I'm talking to
Melissa is just off camera my girlfriend
who's no exception these issues I mean
it's been a struggle in this in this
relationship to but it's a struggle we
actually all you know learn from and
gain a lot of positive things is
struggle worth worth doing I I got I got
a question from a viewer I'll digress
and the grass bag again if you are gonna
call Daniel wrote in and he said I want
your advice on something
do you think based on your experience
and are somewhat similar personalities
that I could be content in a
relationship with an overall
intellectually mediocre woman as my as
my romantic
now I really do this particular guy
Daniel um I do consider him really quite
brilliant I consider him an
extraordinarily gifted verse and in
terms of the the raw materials he's got
to work with and he's also someone with
quite a lot of knowledge of the type of
knowledge I value from my biased
perspective just as beauty is in the eye
of the beholder brilliance is in the eye
of the beholder I care about stuff like
history and politics and languages maybe
he's terrible at math you might be you
might be laughing maybe he's a terrible
driver
I'm nervous he maybe has road rage
whatever uh-huh but you know in the
areas of intelligence I I care about I
both think he's very intelligent and
that he's he's a real intellectual and
he's someone who's gonna go on to he's
gonna continue to care about and learn
about you know history and politics and
these these types of things so look I'm
gonna start with broad brushstrokes and
we're gonna get into finer brush strokes
it's really hard to be honest with the
other people in your life about what
your emotional needs are it's it's
really hard but at least we have a bit
of a cultural discourse about that you
know I need to feel respected I need to
feel loved they need to feel appreciated
I need you to actually take the time to
thank me for doing something those kinds
of discussions now in 2018 they've
become mainstream and I think back in
1968 they were not I think there was a
long struggle between kind of pop
psychology and you know sort of culture
of silence a culture of not showing your
suffering not sharing your suffering and
not trying to conceal any kind of
weakness you again it may be different
from one culture the next but the idea
now that your husband or wife your
boyfriend or girlfriend is someone you
really do share your emotional needs
with your sorrows with and that you look
at them and say look if you can't if you
can't provide this we got to split up
because you know emotionally if there's
something you need to you need to
communicate
and then you need to communicate if the
other person's failing to live up to
what you see is their their their their
side of the bargain their responsibility
and if you don't communicate what your
emotional needs are you can't punish
them for failing to live up to that you
can't just no you can't skip to the
punishment stage you know you can't seem
to see me actually even with being a
classroom teacher I say that all the
time you can't punish students for
breaking unwritten rules you can't
punish students for failing to deliver
on an assignment or something you you
didn't explain to them oh that's that's
my philosophy of teaching and a lot
especially university level a lot of
teachers do not do not live up to that
very simple philosophy so likewise you
know in a relationship you both play the
role of the teacher and you both for the
role the student has these things as
these things go and go as difficult as
it is to communicate the emotional needs
I think we really lack culturally any
kind of a script any kind of preparation
for communicating intellectual needs um
and I know have a lot of practice at age
40 and I can remember I'm cursed with a
very clear memory I can't remember how
difficult it was to communicate that to
my first long-term girlfriend and
communicate it I did I mean I can
remember really saying look this is what
I'm reading what are you reading you
know this is what I'm working on this is
the language I'm learning and you know
what are you doing so I mean one of my
one of my former girlfriends she was
aspiring to be a painter and I provided
for her I mean economically and in terms
of our of the setup in our apartment I
provided with her basically the studio
to paint in and set up and you know I
was doing a lot of things to encourage
her and it's like well look you know if
I see you're not really putting the
hours and you're not really working on
painting you know what what's my role
here and what's your role do you know do
you want me to be asking you to know
what you're what you're doing in lecture
or not you know and there's a reciprocal
element of that too
you know obviously I want to be with
someone who at least over coffee and
over at lunch is gonna talk to me about
what I'm reading or was gonna be reading
some of the essays um I'm reading back
then it was before YouTube so was
writing and publishing informal articles
and once in a while more formal articles
I was doing research and writing of
various kinds are you with someone who
can participate in that are you with
someone who can challenge you to achieve
a higher level who can you know or even
you can criticise which books you're
reading so come on this is a really kind
of you're reading a rinky-dink
introductory book on this one you
wouldn't get a move on to something more
more challenging whatever if that's what
you need the other person to be you've
got to communicate that to them you've
got to communicate the extent to which
they're living up to it or not living up
to it you got to thank them when they do
you got to give them positive feedback
you gotta say hey well you know thanks
you know I really appreciate you
pointing out to me like that my writing
was bad in that essay or that I felt you
know they failed to explain that point
in a way an outsider can understand or
you know whatever it is when they when
they do live up to it you need positive
feedback and thanking them and you got
to be honest with yourself you know
about what was their most not now okay
as my life has gone on my emotional
needs have decreased and decreased it
may be listen to imagine but I'm sure if
you go with I mean when I was when I was
16 Wow the emotional needs for the the
role the woman in it I mean I was I was
really damaged by the upbringing I had I
was really damaged by the parents and
the family apathy born into I was really
damaged by the education I had and and
didn't have and so on so the emotional
needs that were really really high for
the woman 16 I mean up to let's say 23
or something really really high the
intellectual needs I had whether or not
I could express them that well whether I
could cooperate and collaborate that
well we're really high right I mean you
know just think of a sermon
literally having in arms reach you guys
no I'm still working on Aristotle you
know sir I have textbooks here for
Chinese that are sitting around in the
desk books about politics and history
within arm's reach and stuff you know um
from me at age forty I don't need to
talk to anybody about what I'm reading I
don't need guidance or feedback or
positive or even a sounding board like
even when you sit down I have lunch with
somebody and they don't have anything to
say but they're at least listening to
you and asking questions for
clarification or asking what did you
like about the book or something
yeah it's 16 that can be crucial give me
absolutely crucial
it's your intellectual development and
again whether that's 16 to 26 or
whatever it can be so important to have
someone just listening to you talk about
your intellectual aspirations and
interests you I mean whether or not you
think of that as an intellectual need
you you probably do have that kind of
and you are probably playing that role
for the other person too
you know what whatever it is they're
doing yeah intellectually now of course
I'm tempted it here jump into you know
learning languages learning really hard
languages like Chinese but in some ways
that's an extraordinary example that
can't can't apply to things whether it's
learning a language or learning to play
music how different it is to do that
alone completely alone as opposed to
doing it with some participation and
positive feedback from someone who loves
you that's a huge difference I don't
need to play the keyboard learning to
play the trombone learning to read and
write Chinese and you know what it's at
a higher level with history politics
philosophy the life of the mind with
anything intellectual it is because
that's that's the loneliest art form of
all you know and it's the most immediate
I remember my father always used to say
that he used to say the hardest art form
is is acting and here's why he said if
you're a painter you can wake up feeling
like crap feeling thief's wasted your
whole life that you should quit you
should just get a job in a law firm or
real estate you know that you should you
should give it up and then you can look
at the painting on your wall you can
look at a sketch you did stuck to your
fridge with a magnet and you could say
wow I've still got it
like I've still got something could you
sanction to and um you know you can be
totally demoralized as a musician but
you can stand there in the bathroom and
the shower or whatever and sing or play
or instrument or whatever and you can
hear your own voice back and you can
think wow you know I've still got it and
he said when you're an actor and you
stand there in front of the bathroom
mirror looking at yourself what have I
got
what do i what do I have what's what's
my role and you know when you're a 16
year old kid reading philosophy reading
politics the life of the mind
whatever it is no this is all this kind
of stuff what have you what have you got
it's the most immediate most impalpable
thing at least as an actor there's that
little bit of a distance between your
brain and the expression in your face in
some ways your face is your instrument
right your face is your trombone your
face is your canvas but the life of the
mind you know what have I got what am I
doing here having someone you love even
maybe an intellectually meteoroid
mediocre person but he's given you
positive feed but that could be it could
be very important so look what I need
from a partner at age 40 my needs are
very low compared to what they used to
be because now I have so much depth of
experience and self-confidence and
ability and education of course mostly
self-taught mostly autodidact mostly
selfie but I also have a lot of formal
education I can teach myself Chinese
alone in a closet you know you guys
aren't noticed but I taught myself
lotion while chopping firewood and made
my own text books that I've done all
this stuff myself I've worked on so many
languages and philosophies and whatever
I've done a lot of stuff alone and have
become a bit of a cold learning machine
or I can I can intellectually thrive in
a vacuum with nobody to love me or with
somebody to love me but he's not
involved in that way intellectually I'm
gonna go out on a limb here dear viewer
and say you don't want that there's
there's a reason why people would rather
pay fifty thousand dollars
to learn a language like lotion in a
university in Fresno instead of chopping
their own firewood living in a hut
getting their own shocked themselves
alone it's really really hard doing
those things alone and you know having
one person who loves you involved is
infinitely more than zero
okay this is the real world most people
in love in matters of the heart take
whatever they can get and get whatever
they can take you know do you have ten
people choose between do you have ten
people who can really love you I don't
mean tell me ten people will sleep with
you ten people will just have sex with
you and pack up move out the next day
you know someone who really has what it
takes to love you to really be a part of
your life in a constructive positive or
um if the only person you've got who's
indicating they want to try to you know
build a life with you they want to try
to love you they want to try to support
you if that person is intellectually
mediocre you can try and you have to
make it your absolute top priority to
communicate to them what are your
emotional needs
what are your intellectual needs and
they've got to do the same back for you
it's possible this woman assuming it's
one more these women plural that Daniel
was considering dating it's possible
they chose you Daniel because they have
intellectual needs to Melissa one of the
benefits she gets from this relationship
is someone to motivate her and director
and reward her for the reading she's
doing you know Melissa comes out of a
background where she's aware she just
didn't learn that much in high school
she just didn't learn that much in
university came up the other day I asked
her you know when was the first time you
even heard the name Mao Zedong what was
it
you heard the name Stalin and the stuff
these huge towering parts of recent you
know political history that were totally
lacking from her education upbringing
and her becoming her going from being a
kind of isolated sheltered person from
Detroit to being a cosmopolitan
kind of politically savvy well-educated
person almost nobody nobody will put an
ad on but what are the dating apps
tinder tinder is a day yeah no one's
gonna point put an app and put an
advertisement on on tinder saying yeah
I'm single what I really want it's
someone who can help me develop from
being a kind of isolated you know
totally educated person into being a
sophisticated you know cousin volatile
person but that's what a lot of women
want sure so what a lot of men want to I
mean again we could be talking about a
gay relationship where it's it's two men
and the gender inequality is taken out
of this and we could be type of a
relationship where the woman is older
and the man is younger all these
combinations and you can be an older guy
but getting older is not getting wiser
you could be an older guy with a low
level of education you you're with a
more educated woman and exactly part of
why you want to be with her is because
she provides the kind of stimulus and
motivation for you to be all you can be
for you to develop more to get to get
more out of yourself and you know
there's a difference here the the
emotional needs we think of as
fundamentally
comforting and gratifying when they're
met and never forget this the
intellectual needs are exhausting right
it's hard work and it's not about
feeling good about yourself it's not
it's about pushing your limits and
learning from the experience and failing
and failing and failing until you gain
proficiency and being wrong and finding
out that you're wrong and noticing that
you're wrong and maybe you're your
boyfriend or girlfriend's pointing out
that you're wrong then noticing it and
thinking what you're doing on learning
from the mistake that's the process and
I think one of the real signs of being
an intellectual is that you realize this
doesn't end when you come home and
off your hat and hang up your coat that
your home life in your apartment with
your boyfriend or girlfriend this is me
be the most important Laboratory of all
you're gonna do more learning in the
bedroom than at the library long term
over the the years and decades of your
life ahead so if you don't have an
intellectually gratifying stimulating
motivating relationship it's just going
to be a huge disadvantage in your life
in every way say again
most people take whatever they can get
and get whatever they can take if you've
met someone and they really think
they've got what it takes to love you
that's number one job apartment and at
any age at any age they may not know
themselves what they're capable of yet
so if you give them a chance
maybe maybe intellectually they can
surprise you